So, a question that often comes up when
you
talk about data science is, what about big
data?
So big data is obviously different to
different people.
So, big data for somebody without a
computer might be 1,000 numbers, but data
for,
big data for somebody with access to
Amazon
EC2 might be enormous, much, much, much
larger.
So, how much data is there?
So, this is an info graphic that says that
there in 2001 there
will be 1.8 zetabytes that were created,
which is a gigantic amount of data.
But realistically, only a tiny fraction of
that data can be used
to answer any specific question that you
might have in your mind.
So the question that keeps coming up is
what about big data?
So, you often think, see things like, you
know, big
data and cloud management and cloud and
big data tend to
go together and that's because for some
data sets they're so
big that you can't analyze them on your
local laptop computer.
So, it really depends on your perspective.
So, this is one of the very first hard
drives.
so, created by IBM and so it's it was able
to contain much less data
than you could even store right now on
your computer or even on your cell phone.
And so what this suggests is that over
time as technology increases, big data
will change.
So, one way to solve the big data problem
is to just sort
of wait until the hardware catches up with
the size of the data.
But most questions that you're trying to
answer don't necessarily have the big data
component that necessitates the need of
huge
numbers of computers, although sometimes
it does.
So why is big data such a big deal now?
Well this is only one example of that.
So, there was an experiment run by Stanley
Milgram where he
took 296 individuals and he, what he tried
to do was basically
send them a letter and ask them to send a
letter from
someone they knew and so forth until they
went a specific address.
And so, 64 of these such chains came back,
so 64 out of 296.
And from that they found out that there
were about 5.2 people in between
the person that originally got the letter
and the person that finally received the
letter.
And this is where this sort of six degrees
of separation sort of came about.
And so what ended up happening is, is that
people nowadays can
collect much more data than they could
before and much more cheaply.
So the, these investigators took an
instant messaging network and
they looked at 30 billion conversations
between 240 million people.
And then they performed a similar sort of
experiment to
try to identify how far apart people were,
and they
looked at the sort of to analyze the same
question
that was looked at with just 64 email
chains before.
And they found that the average path
length was actually 6.6, so they sort
of upgraded the six points, the six
degrees of separation to seven degrees of
separation.
So, what's the take home message here?
The take home message is that it's now
possible to collect much
more data much more cheaply than it was
before and to analyze it.
But the question is, is how much of that
data is useful
for answering the question that you're
sort of involved, you're involved in.
This is sort of a tongue in cheek, suppose
it says, don't use Hadoop, your data isn't
that big.
So Hadoop is another of these buzzwords
you frequently hear around big data, and
it is an incredibly powerful and useful
technique, if your data is very, very
large.
But if you have enough memory on your
computer, or you have a powerful enough
computer, you can analyze a large number
of,
data sets, that you, that are important
and
relevant to you without having to get
into the more complicated techniques that
are induced
by going, scaling up to massive sized data
sets like those analyzed by Google and
Facebook.
Big or small data that you need,
regardless of
the size of the data, you need the right
data.
So, the data might not contain the answer.
The combination of some data and an aching
desire for an answer does not
ensure that a reasonable answer can be
extracted from a given body of data.
This was a quote by John Toupee, one of
the first data scientists.
And I would add to it, no matter how big
the data are.
So, even if you have gigantic data, it
might not be big enough
to be able to answer your question if it's
not the right data.